[Music]
everybody today's episode is brought to
you by our very own impact Theory
University enjoy the episode everyone
welcome to impact Theory our goal with
this show and company is to introduce
you to the people and ideas that will
help you actually execute on your dreams
now more than ever it's important to
learn how to deal with stress and
anxiety in a healthy way
and for me meditation has been a life
changing tool as a means to tap into my
desired mindset and meditation has also
served as a critical tool for many of
our past impact Theory guests so on this
special episode we have included how
some of our amazing guests have used
meditation to dramatically change their
lives for the better for anyone who
missed them the first time around here
is a brief summary of the extraordinary
people you'll hear from on today's
episode dr. Joe Dispenza neuroscientist
and best-selling author dr. Shefali
clinical psychologist and international
speaker Robert Greene author of multiple
New York Times bestselling books vishen
la kyäni founder of the award-winning
educational movement mine valley collin
O'Brady world-record-holding explorer
and one of the world's best endurance
athletes Molly bloom entrepreneur and
best-selling author of Molly's game
Tim's story top-rated life coach and
motivational speaker Ray Dalio
billionaire and entrepreneur so get
ready for the power of motivation with
our first guest the one and only dr. Joe
Dispenza
talk pretty profoundly about proteins
and like really at a deep level how
we're signalling to our genetics to
create these kinds of changes what does
that actually look like
well epigenetics epi means above the
gene and many years ago after the DNA
helix was discovered by Watson and Crick
they said the blueprints of life you
know all diseases are created from genes
it turns out less than 5% more like 1%
of people on the planet are born with a
genetic condition like type 1 diabetes
or tay-sachs disease or sickle cell
anemia the other 95 to 99 percent are
created by lifestyle and by choices you
can take two identical twins exact same
genome one dies at 51 the other one dies
at 85
same gene different environment so all
of a sudden they said we lied that was
wrong it's not genes that create disease
it's the environment that signals the
gene that creates disease well ok but
that's not the whole truth too because
you could have two people working side
by side in the same factory one gets
cancer after being exposed to a
carcinogenic for 25 years
both working for 25 years the other one
has no cancer at all so there must be
some internal order that would cause one
person to not get it while another one
does so is it possible then if the
environment signals the gene and it does
and the end product of an experience in
the environment is called an emotion can
you signal the gene ahead of the
environment by embracing an elevated
emotion we've done the research on this
where we measured 7,500 different gene
expressions in a group of people it came
to an advanced event for four days and
we had them doing a seated meditation a
walking meditation a laying down
meditation a standing meditation and at
the end of four days just four days the
common eight genes that were upregulated
two genes to suppress cancer cells and
tumor growth two genes for neurogenesis
the growth of new neurons in response to
novel experiences and learning
the gene that signals stem cells to go
to damaged areas and repair them the
gene for oxidative stress was up
regulated we started seeing all these
genes that are very very healthy to
cause the body to flourish imagine if
people were doing that for three months
we also measured telomeres the little
shoestrings on the end of DNA that tell
us our biological age we asked people to
do the work
meditation five out of seven days for 60
days measure their telomeres that
determine their biological age sixty
days later 74 percent of the people
lengthen their telomeres 40% significant
change 20% a very remarkable change that
means that they got a little bit of
their life back if they lengthened by
10%
they got 10% of their life back
[Music]
you're always honest about like your own
foibles and the difficulties in your
relationship and you'll use your
daughter as examples a lot which is it
makes it so accessible which is really
awesome and then it also brings round to
the reminder of who's doing the work
which ultimately is right right so what
what are techniques that any of us can
use to figure that out to get in touch
to if we're going to because you've been
so successful I know you've worked very
very hard to get where you're at and
there and as somebody who's who I won't
say also because maybe it's very
different for us both but I'm very
ambitious and at times in my life the
process was ugly there's no question but
then you know at times it's been really
beautiful and really fun and so how do
you reconcile those things which if you
were to describe on paper wouldn't
necessarily sound being in touch with
the true self like how do you
deconstruct that and make sure you're on
a good path I guess well it's it's my
commitment to this work right I'm not
doing this for the ego or the
achievement it comes it's great but I'm
not fixated on it so my ultimate point
of it all is to be authentic and to
uncover and deconstruct my own minds
toxic toxicities so I can liberate
myself because if I liberate then only I
ever hope to liberate help liberate
someone else do you have a process for
that I and if you if it is meditation
like what form of meditation it's it's
it's largely meditative but not just
checking out of intellect right using
the intellect to discern using wisdom
and the meditative process so constantly
deconstructing what I'm going through if
I'm triggered I deconstruct so active
deconstruction but meditation really and
it's the posture meditation that I do
it's Insight Meditation insight insight
okay it's insight into your true nature
and are you trying to create a quiet
mental space to be able to hear like
intuitive thoughts yeah it's a really
the most basic way of meditate
it's as bare-bones it's hardcore it's
just you sit you follow your breath and
follow breath and you follow your breath
and there's a science behind it and
through the witnessing of your breath in
the present moment in the present moment
in the present moment you learn to
detach from your thoughts and you
realize the empowerment in nature of
reality because you realize your
thoughts are impermanent and the now is
impermanent so you begin to live in the
impermanence of the now fully I know
recently you had a stroke and the way
that you're approaching it has the sort
of Milton Erickson written all over it
with rebuilding yourself but with a
writer's mind and so you're paying
attention to what it takes and what
you're going through walk us through
that like what are you learning about
that what principles of the book are you
applying to it well um you know so if I
talk in the book about overcoming your
own nature this dam and that was
slammed into my face right I had to
overcome my frustration my lack of
patience my willfulness the fact that I
always have to do things myself you know
and then I had to confront the fact that
I could easily have died but I didn't
I'm alive so I can learn from this I'm
learning a lot and I'm gonna rebuild my
body I'm gonna rebuild it I've come a
long way so like a month ago I was
pretty bad I'm able to walk now fairly
well in four months from now I'm gonna
be swimming again in six months I'm
gonna be jogging I'm gonna be back to
where I was nothing will stop me but I
have to overcome all of my deficiencies
and all of these weaknesses that I have
built up over the years yeah that is
needless to say that's a long difficult
Road how do you what tools do you use to
reset your mind every day as you're
going through this in and paralleling
that maybe to that check off story in
the book and how what he overcame him is
really extraordinary being beaten by his
father all the time and that he goes on
to be the guy that isn't bitter was
pretty extraordinary
what mechanisms do you use to reset
everyday
I meditate every morning I've been doing
that for several year for eight years
now religiously and in those meditations
I confront myself so I'm sitting there
meditating and my meditation is all
about emptying the mind but it's
impossible to empty the mind
so as you're meditating thoughts come to
you anxieties worries resentments I've
trained myself to question where they
are each time I feel anger at my sibling
or my mother or friend for saying
something that I misinterpreted I go
that's your ego speaking you these
people weren't saying something that was
personal you just have your ego which is
always getting in your way question it
so question my impatience my
frustrations etc the meditation has
really helped me
but transcendent practices any practice
where you you go out of the physical
world and you go with it so meditation
breathing in and out box breeding is a
transcendent practice but closing your
eyes and just being grateful for your
life is a transcendent practice closing
your eyes and thinking compassionately
about someone you love is a transcendent
practice and think a tation
is a transcendent practice you're going
within and then there's modern
meditation which is about becoming
better at the world meditation is not
about becoming better at meditation it's
about becoming better and functioning in
the modern world and so when you
understand that transcendent practices
are these beautiful things we can tap
into the get better at life you see
meditation in a completely different way
meditation helps you bend reality there
is a myth out there in the world that I
call the hustle mate and says that it's
about hard work that it's about working
harder than the competition it's about
busting your back for a hundred hours a
week I call on that because I
also see people who take who focus on
themselves first who have a steady
meditation practice who learn how to tap
into intuition and then how to visualize
their goals and they work significantly
less but get far better results you can
hustle or you can surrender into your
inner space and I'm a big fan of
surrendering into your inner space
hustling to me is an outdated broken
approach that leads to overwork it leads
to broken marriages it leads to poor
relationship with your kids it leads to
aging faster don't hustle it's a myth
all right so I'm the king of hustle so
right now you're gonna convince me to be
and I'm actually super oh and I always
want a better answer than where I'm at
so explain to me and obviously I've
heard you talk about this but I have
questions explain to me what it means to
surrender into something so so let me
give you an example now you said you're
the king of hustle right but I would
actually debate that when I talk about
hustle I talk about the people who
believe that you have to work an ungodly
number of hours to be successful there
is a much healthier way so there are two
different types of people who are
talking about entrepreneurship today
that's the
type of people who talk about
entrepreneurship purely in the physical
sense it's about the number of hours you
work it's about the number of phone
calls and of course hard work work has
its place but then you see the rise of
books by people like Michael singer who
wrote the book the surrender experiment
and if you read the book it's kind of
cool this guy built a billion-dollar
software company and he talks about how
he did that by surrendering by going
within by having a daily meditation
practice now in your case I believe
you're doing it you're also moving to
that approach but you're doing it
unconsciously when you - when I listen
to you speak at AFS and you spoke about
how you sit down you relax and you think
it ate and these ideas come into you
you're tapping into something Tommy
you're tapping into your intuition that
is a far more efficient way than trying
to hustle to get these ideas you're
going within so like getting into what
you can learn through the pasta
meditation is very interesting to me
I've never done it I'm super intrigued
more so after hearing your story than
I've ever been and what I want to know
because people listening right now they
don't understand what the journey inside
the mind is and this is one of the
reasons that the matrix is the perfect
movie to me in terms of being a metaphor
for human life because Morpheus says the
very true quote no one can tell you what
the matrix is you have to see it for
yourself
like there's just no way to explain it
right he tries to the beginning oh he
says it's all around you it's everything
you see but like you don't really
understand so like when you say that the
pasta meditation is taking you inside
the mind it's this incredibly
transformational thing that it helps you
develop awareness for somebody who is
sitting at home thinking I have no
interest in doing that I'm convinced
they have no interest because they don't
understand what it means how would you
describe it all right I love that
question it's a fantastic question one
thing that I think is beautiful about it
is that because our brains as you said
are malleable or that neuroplasticity
the experience is different for every
person as well as it's different every
time you go so I've set three 10-david
pasta courses I try to go every year
every other year as well as some shorter
ones after that begun it's kind of start
with the 10-day and it's not as if like
the first time I was like I'm getting
better at this and the second time I was
like I'm pretty good
this the third time I was like I'm
awesome at this it was like you know
even any given day in one of those 30
days that I've done it or any different
moment its ups and downs you're riding a
cycle which is a great metaphor for life
but trying to drill down a little more
specific in enriched detail for a person
maybe to help frame that so when you're
having these ups and downs is it
something like I'm at this my mind
is just running all over the place and I
have no control and I can't empty my
thoughts I'm worried about then focusing
and then when you get into sort of a
zone of really being engaged in the
here-and-now that's when it feels like
you're doing it well so I think in
general it sounds like I imagine you a
little experience with meditation in
some format which is there's no like
being good at meditating like that's
like the total fallacy in itself which
is the entire practice but papasa
teaches you to not have either craving
nor aversion which means if you have
like this beautiful warm flow state
vibration through your body it easy be
like I'm good at this now like whatever
but the second that goes the way if you
start craving that good positive flow
sensation you're actually craving for
something that's not there the same
conversely is like you're sitting there
like your back hurts your knee hurts you
this and you're like oh my god I'm
terrible at this my mind's racing always
things you're like I'm bad at this you
have aversion to the pain of that
circumstance first is once you go
through a full 10 day where you start to
realize is both of those things are
gonna come and go there's gonna be good
moments there's gonna be hard moments
but both those moments are actually just
objective so taking into Antarctica
terms for a second where the Vanette a
ssin completely applied to this lesson
which is I got to a place in my mind
towards the end where I could tap into
flow States for a really long period of
time and as storms were raging on the
outside or the external there you know
like I said 50 60 mile-per-hour winds
it's blowing it's crazy normally be like
it's crazy out here I can barely walk
the wind's blowing it's so cold I could
get frostbitten in a second I could ever
or I found the place my mind through
pasta go like oh it's really windy right
now the average temperature is minus 80
degrees I'm out here all alone
objectively not wishing I was warm not
wishing I was cold not wishing I was
somewhere else just like it is
survival mode I think is comprised of
this state where you have nothing to
lose and you can't live like that right
that's not a life and so two things
happen in survival mode one I got pretty
fearless
and two I had this for the first time in
my life the strange brand of pure
confidence because no one expected
anything from me and so I think a lot
had to do with that now when I got out
of crisis my normal mind came back in
and I desperately wanted to return to
crisis mode mind without the crisis and
so what I did is I like pursued that
with everything I had I started reading
a ton of books I spoke to people that I
respect in all different fields
spiritual people
neuroscientists psychologists elders I
respect in a 12-step program and I just
through trial-and-error cycled through
these different sort of ways to return
me to this liberated fearless confident
mindset because it was so powerful you
know and it was so effective and so the
answer to that is I think you've got to
figure out a way to to get your own self
out of the way because the only thing
that's ever said in between myself or
anyone else and their ultimate dream is
themselves right there's going to be
obstacles of course but you can navigate
them unless you think you can't so the
two things you know there's there's just
like a couple of things that I've found
if I practice on a daily basis that I
can stay sort of in that Flynn that flow
mind right and it's interesting one of
them is meditation and you know a lot of
people and like you know meditation is
stigmatized as this is as a very
spiritual practice or a practice just
you know like calm you down or whatever
and I think those are great applications
for it but in my experience meditation
is an absolutely critical performance
tool because it allows you to train your
mind
so the beautiful thing about peace it's
not it's not a spot like people say whoa
I'm gonna go to Marbella Spain that's
where I find peace or I'm going back to
Egypt that's where I find peace that's
cool that I helped you can like stop BAM
right now and and and have peace you can
go into that place of meditation how
though okay
part of that is I call it stop look and
listen you got it you got to stop the
noise okay you got to look inside
yourself and then you have to listen so
let's just stop now just go into a place
of meditation and don't think about
where you've been where you were what
everybody is saying about you but let's
just go into a place of being grateful
and you love that word too mmm you got
it you got to go back to that place of
of being being grateful it's this idea
of you may not be what you want to be
but thank god you're not what you used
to be and what I find is from that place
of peace okay you you can find a better
place to help solve that dilemma that
you're in because chaos will create more
chaos if you're not careful yeah that is
for sure so let's go back to meditation
let's define that so I think it's really
powerful and I get why you have people
start with gratitude yeah
that's such a I'll say weapon to help
people really get calm to change their
neuro chemistry to focus on something
that's going to be helpful
yes do you define meditation as simply
thinking about things you're grateful
for or is there something else there I
think there's different things that
people meditate on to meditate is to
mutter or to have your mind set to set
your mind to mindset so some people do
spiritual meditation some
people think about nature but whatever
you meditate on mindset okay is the
whole being grateful that does take you
into a beautiful state because then you
start to remember that you're you're
still living you're still breathing
you're you're still alive and then the
second place I think that we should go
is you need to begin to go beyond your
situation you need to think big in small
places do you think that meditation gave
you the ability to get out from under
the control of your emotions yes
meditation was fantastic meditation is
the biggest gift that I can give anyone
and I would say more than anything it is
whatever reason for success I've had
because it allows one back to the to use
I'll clarify what I mean is that in your
mind there we think what do you want and
the reality is when you look at the
neuroscience and psychology that there
are different parts of your brain that
want different things and so in the
simplest sense there is the logical part
of the brain that you're conscious of
it's called the conscious and you think
you're being logical and you want to
make those decisions and then there's
the subliminal below the limbic system
part of the brain which is the emotional
and it's not as conscious to you but it
has more of an influence on you than
really the logical one and so they're
not aligned and so when you're
experiencing that pain or let's say the
ego not right there were two main things
you got an ego barrier and a blind-spot
barrier if you can get past your ego
barrier and you get past your blind spot
barrier you can accomplish anything
because you'll also know that you don't
have to do everything to you have to
figure it out yourself
you can take in from other people the
different ways to approach things in the
best possible way
and so the realization that we all are
really struggling with ourselves and to
think which are which is in control
meditation helps to deal with the
alignment of those two things because
both are valuable in other words
intuition imagination the things we
really love come from our subliminal
haces right our needs whatever they may
be they come from here
that'sa blimmin oh they may be valuable
they may be scary damaging you don't
know the difference and so when they
come up and you're looking at those with
your logical mind and you can align
those things you're probably in good
shape if you can do that that alignment
between the subliminal and the logical
and you can do that with other people so
that you can triangulate with other
people and say does that make sense or
that and get alignment that alignment is
the path to the future because you only
have to know what the best things to do
are you don't have to have them all come
up from your head and for God's sakes
don't be overly opinionated because just
because you have that opinion it doesn't
mean it's true
so that's where the to use and the
alignment really is so important all
right I hope you guys enjoyed learning
how these amazing individuals use
meditation to help them find the best
version of themselves and to manage
their stress and anxiety my hope is that
if you're not currently using meditation
that you make it a part of your daily
life starting immediately it really will
help you center yourself and navigate
the challenges going on right now thank
you guys so much for watching meditation
absolutely changed my life and I know
that it can change yours until next time
my friends be legendary
what's up impactive is as you guys know
my mission in life is to provide the no
BS instruction manual for success and to
that end we've launched our brand-new
learning platform impact Theory
University our goal with ITU is to
provide you with curriculum that will
help you take your career business or
personal development to the next level
so regardless of your end goal ITU is
designed to provide
the universal principles and tactics of
success that will propel you forward so
whether you want to build a fortune 500
company advance quickly up the ranks at
your company become a more effective
parent or partner or simply get unstuck
there are core principles that apply and
that's where impact theory university
comes in but to be clear ITU is not
another podcast or conversation with an
influencer you can get all of that for
free right here on our YouTube page
instead it is structured education
delivered in a compelling format and
paired with social support and
accountability we offer two tracks
business and mindset and regardless of
which track you choose you'll gain
access to a library of all of our
pre-recorded classes as well as two
hours of live teaching per month where
you'll have the opportunity to engage
with me ask questions and meet others in
the community every class also comes
with an actionable worksheet designed to
help you take the immediate action that
is required to make any new skill stick
and last but certainly not least as a
student enrolled in ITU you'll get
access to an exclusive online community
of other like-minded individuals who
will help you study the content work
through all of your goals and keep you
accountable at all times itu pricing
starts as low as forty seven dollars a
month for the mindset track and ninety
seven dollars a month for the business
track there's also a 50% discount if you
buy the whole year upfront and
additional discounts if you sign up for
both mindset and business when you
bundle all of the discounts together the
cost drops to roughly 80 cents a day I
think ITU truly is the best content we
have ever made but if you sign up and
don't agree that it's worth say ten
times what you paid just take advantage
of our no questions asked 30-day
money-back guarantee I don't want any of
us to get paid unless we're delivering
disproportionate value so trust of the
refund process will be absolutely
hassle-free and if this sounds like
something that would help you move
forward in your life but you can't
afford it we do have a scholarship
program that you can apply for that
provides free access to those in need
alright everybody if you want to take
advantage of this and make it
dramatically poured in your life sign up
today the link is in the description or
you can go directly to University
impact Theory dot-com I look forward to
seeing you on the inside my friends and
until then be legendary
take care ask yourself Who am I what do
I want what is my purpose what am i
grateful for going to the stillness of
meditation you have what wisdom
traditions have called revelation